# Remover StegaStamp

We highly refer the code from [**StegaStamp**](http://www.matthewtancik.com/stegastamp)

## Installation
- Pull tensorflow docker (`tensorflow/tensorflow:1.14.0-gpu-py3`)
- Python 3 required
- Download dependencies
```bash=
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Dataset
- We use [MS COCO](https://cocodataset.org/#home) train set for training the original stegastamp.
- We use [MS COCO](https://cocodataset.org/#home) validation set for training the remover architecture.

## Training
### Encoder / Decoder
- Set dataset path in train.py
```
TRAIN_PATH = DIR_OF_DATASET_IMAGES
```

- Train the original StegaStamp
```bash
bash scripts/base.sh EXP_NAME
```
The training is performed in `train.py`. There are a number of hyperparameters, many corresponding to the augmentation parameters. `scripts/bash.sh` provides a good starting place.

- Train the remover network
```
python remover_train.py remover
```
You should edit the number of hyperparameters and argument such as the dataset path, output path.

### Detector
The training code for the detector model (used to segment StegaStamps) is not included in this repo. The model used in the paper was trained using the BiSeNet model released [here](https://github.com/GeorgeSeif/Semantic-Segmentation-Suite). CROP_WIDTH and CROP_HEIGHT were set to 1024, all other parameters were set to the default. The dataset was generated by randomly placing warped StegaStamps onto larger images.

### Tensorboard
To visualize the training run the following command and navigate to http://localhost:6006 in your browser.
```bash=
tensorboard --logdir logs
```

## Encoding a Message
The script `encode_image.py` can be used to encode a message into an image or a directory of images. The default model expects a utf-8 encoded secret that is <= 7 characters (100 bit message -> 56 bits after ECC).

Encode a message into an image:
```bash=
python encode_image.py \
  saved_models/stegastamp_pretrained \
  --image test_im.png  \
  --save_dir out/ \
  --secret Hello
```
This will save both the StegaStamp and the residual that was applied to the original image.

## Decoding a Message
The script `decode_image.py` can be used to decode a message from a StegaStamp.

Example usage:
```bash=
python decode_image.py \
  saved_models/stegastamp_pretrained \
  --image out/test_hidden.png
```

## Detecting and Decoding
The script `detector.py` can be used to detect and decode StegaStamps in an image. This is useful in cases where there are multiple StegaStamps are present or the StegaStamp does not fill the frame of the image.

To use the detector, make sure to download the detector model as described in the installation section. The recomended input video resolution is 1920x1080.

```bash=
python detector.py \
  --detector_model detector_models/stegastamp_detector \
  --decoder_model saved_models/stegastamp_pretrained \
  --video test_vid.mp4
```
Add the `--save_video FILENAME` flag to save out the results.

The `--visualize_detector` flag can be used to visualize the output of the detector network. The mask corresponds to the segmentation mask, the colored polygons are fit to this segmentation mask using a set of heuristics. The detector outputs can noisy and are sensitive to size of the stegastamp. Further optimization of the detection network is not explored in this paper.
